recipes/ci-cd/github-actions/workflows/jekyll/build/container.md, before:

# Jekyll in a container

Related recipe - [Jekyll]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link recipes/containers/jekyll.md %}) in the Container section.

This flow runs a **Docker container**. If you don't want to use Docker, see [Jekyll Ruby Action][], which is a light approach.

[Jekyll Ruby Action]: {{ site.baseurl }}{% link recipes/ci-cd/github-actions/workflows/jekyll/build/ruby-action.md %}

{% raw %}

It runs Jekyll inside a container that is run as a binary (using `docker` CLI but no `Dockerfile` needed). So it can be used as a drop-in replacement for running `jekyll` directly.

Plus, the container takes care of Ruby and Jekyll dependencies and installing project gems. This `builder` image even includes **Node.js**.

Based on [jekyll.yml](https://github.com/actions/starter-workflows/blob/main/ci/jekyll.yml) - a starter workflow provided by GitHub.

- `main.yml`
    ```yaml
    name: GH Pages deploy

    on:
      push:
        branches: main
        paths-ignore:
          - README.md

      pull_request:
        branches: main
        paths-ignore:
          - README.md

    jobs:
      build-deploy:
        name: Build and deploy

        runs-on: ubuntu-latest

        steps:
          - name: Checkout 🛎️
            uses: actions/checkout@v2

          - name: Build Jekyll site
            run: |
              docker run \
                -v ${{ github.workspace }}:/srv/jekyll \
                jekyll/builder:4.2.0 \
                /bin/bash -c 'chmod 777 /srv/jekyll && bundle exec jekyll build --future'

          - name: Deploy to GH Pages 🚀
            if: ${{ github.event_name != 'pull_request' }}
            uses: peaceiris/actions-gh-pages@v3
            with:
              github_token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
              publish_dir: _site
    ```

You can use `jekyll COMMAND` or `bundle exec jekyll COMMAND`. The latter is probably safer, using the project Jekyll instead of the global Jekyll (at least global inside the container).

Make sure that the image tag Jekyll version matches the Jekyll version in `Gemfile`. Though, you could even leave Jekyll out of `Gemfile`, but I wouldn't recommend it, so you can still run it outside a container.

See [jekyll/builder tags](https://hub.docker.com/r/jekyll/builder/tags?page=1&ordering=last_updated) available.

If you want to use say Jekyll `4.3` in your Gemfile and the Docker image tag is not available, you could use `bundle exec jekyll build` as the command passed to the container. To ensure the project Jekyll gets used, instead of the container's global Jekyll.


## About the approach

This builds the site using a **Docker** container step. This means you don't need to use any Action from the marketplace to setup your Ruby and Jekyll environment. The container image is ready to go. When you run it, it will even install your gems for you using Bundler.

I think this is great - I don't know why there are so many Jekyll actions out there. Maybe if you really need control over the environment or build steps. Some actions include Jekyll and GH Pages in one - I don't think it is a good idea to mix those together in one inseparable step.

Another advantage is that you can run the exact same container locally - which is great for debugging and for running your application locally on any OS without requiring Ruby, Bundler and gems installed.

An advantage of using Docker here is that you can run the same command locally - no Ruby or Jekyll needed. You can move the full docker command to a `Makefile` too to make it easier to run as `make build`.

### Caching note

A disadvantage of using Docker here is that the image is not cached and so must be downloaded each time. I found an action which supports caching of Docker images, but adds extra steps and complexity. Maybe the plain cache action can work for Docker cache directory?

Also, the gems have to be downloaded and installed each time, which be avoided by adding the cache action, even if it doesn't cache the image.


## Notes on the workflow

- Using the Docker step alone output would get thrown away after the build. If you want to persist as a GH Pages site, just add on the last section as below, using a generic GH Pages action.
- You can pick a tag like `4` to get a recent version in `4.x` range. I'd avoid `latest` as one day you'll suddenly get `5`. GH Pages normally limits you to `3.9`.
- The `--future` flag is to publish future-dated posts.


## Original workflow

The workflow is based on the one generated by the GitHub when it suggests a Jekyll workflow for your project.

### My changes

- Use Jekyll version `4` instead of `latest`, to avoid upgrading to 5 by accident. Also, you can use `4.2` etc. if such as tag exists.
- Add GH Pages at the end to persist on `gh-pages` branch. I've also setup this deploy step only runs on the main branch, not feature branches.
- Remove a volume.

I tried to use `$PWD` instead of `${{ github.workspace }}` I but got a permissions error. Just make sure to use `$PWD` for local use. i.e. `-v "$PWD:/srv/jekyll"`

See related notes below.

### Permissions note

Note use of `chmod 777` for the directory (not for the files in it).

If this is _not_ included, then the container logs that it is installing gems which fails because of no permissions to write to `Gemfile.lock`.

```
There was an error while trying to write to `/srv/jekyll/Gemfile.lock`. It is
```

I don't know how this works though. The entry-point command given to the container is only meant to run after the docker has setup gems internally.

### Volume note

Note that GitHub's own starter workflow mounts **two** volumes, when only one is needed.

Here it is anyway with `_site` as a volume.

```
-v ${{ github.workspace }}:/srv/jekyll \
-v ${{ github.workspace }}/_site:/srv/jekyll/_site \
```

The second is unnecessary as it is already covered by the first as a nested directory with the identical name in and outside the container.

{% endraw %}

Commit message:

refactor: Replace setup with set up

recipes/ci-cd/github-actions/workflows/jekyll/build/container.md, after:

# Jekyll in a container

Related recipe - [Jekyll]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link recipes/containers/jekyll.md %}) in the Container section.

This flow runs a **Docker container**. If you don't want to use Docker, see [Jekyll Ruby Action][], which is a light approach.

[Jekyll Ruby Action]: {{ site.baseurl }}{% link recipes/ci-cd/github-actions/workflows/jekyll/build/ruby-action.md %}

{% raw %}

It runs Jekyll inside a container that is run as a binary (using `docker` CLI but no `Dockerfile` needed). So it can be used as a drop-in replacement for running `jekyll` directly.

Plus, the container takes care of Ruby and Jekyll dependencies and installing project gems. This `builder` image even includes **Node.js**.

Based on [jekyll.yml](https://github.com/actions/starter-workflows/blob/main/ci/jekyll.yml) - a starter workflow provided by GitHub.

- `main.yml`
    ```yaml
    name: GH Pages deploy

    on:
      push:
        branches: main
        paths-ignore:
          - README.md

      pull_request:
        branches: main
        paths-ignore:
          - README.md

    jobs:
      build-deploy:
        name: Build and deploy

        runs-on: ubuntu-latest

        steps:
          - name: Checkout 🛎️
            uses: actions/checkout@v2

          - name: Build Jekyll site
            run: |
              docker run \
                -v ${{ github.workspace }}:/srv/jekyll \
                jekyll/builder:4.2.0 \
                /bin/bash -c 'chmod 777 /srv/jekyll && bundle exec jekyll build --future'

          - name: Deploy to GH Pages 🚀
            if: ${{ github.event_name != 'pull_request' }}
            uses: peaceiris/actions-gh-pages@v3
            with:
              github_token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
              publish_dir: _site
    ```

You can use `jekyll COMMAND` or `bundle exec jekyll COMMAND`. The latter is probably safer, using the project Jekyll instead of the global Jekyll (at least global inside the container).

Make sure that the image tag Jekyll version matches the Jekyll version in `Gemfile`. Though, you could even leave Jekyll out of `Gemfile`, but I wouldn't recommend it, so you can still run it outside a container.

See [jekyll/builder tags](https://hub.docker.com/r/jekyll/builder/tags?page=1&ordering=last_updated) available.

If you want to use say Jekyll `4.3` in your Gemfile and the Docker image tag is not available, you could use `bundle exec jekyll build` as the command passed to the container. To ensure the project Jekyll gets used, instead of the container's global Jekyll.


## About the approach

This builds the site using a **Docker** container step. This means you don't need to use any Action from the marketplace to set up your Ruby and Jekyll environment. The container image is ready to go. When you run it, it will even install your gems for you using Bundler.

I think this is great - I don't know why there are so many Jekyll actions out there. Maybe if you really need control over the environment or build steps. Some actions include Jekyll and GH Pages in one - I don't think it is a good idea to mix those together in one inseparable step.

Another advantage is that you can run the exact same container locally - which is great for debugging and for running your application locally on any OS without requiring Ruby, Bundler and gems installed.

An advantage of using Docker here is that you can run the same command locally - no Ruby or Jekyll needed. You can move the full docker command to a `Makefile` too to make it easier to run as `make build`.

### Caching note

A disadvantage of using Docker here is that the image is not cached and so must be downloaded each time. I found an action which supports caching of Docker images, but adds extra steps and complexity. Maybe the plain cache action can work for Docker cache directory?

Also, the gems have to be downloaded and installed each time, which be avoided by adding the cache action, even if it doesn't cache the image.


## Notes on the workflow

- Using the Docker step alone output would get thrown away after the build. If you want to persist as a GH Pages site, just add on the last section as below, using a generic GH Pages action.
- You can pick a tag like `4` to get a recent version in `4.x` range. I'd avoid `latest` as one day you'll suddenly get `5`. GH Pages normally limits you to `3.9`.
- The `--future` flag is to publish future-dated posts.


## Original workflow

The workflow is based on the one generated by the GitHub when it suggests a Jekyll workflow for your project.

### My changes

- Use Jekyll version `4` instead of `latest`, to avoid upgrading to 5 by accident. Also, you can use `4.2` etc. if such as tag exists.
- Add GH Pages at the end to persist on `gh-pages` branch. I've also set up this deploy step only runs on the main branch, not feature branches.
- Remove a volume.

I tried to use `$PWD` instead of `${{ github.workspace }}` I but got a permissions error. Just make sure to use `$PWD` for local use. i.e. `-v "$PWD:/srv/jekyll"`

See related notes below.

### Permissions note

Note use of `chmod 777` for the directory (not for the files in it).

If this is _not_ included, then the container logs that it is installing gems which fails because of no permissions to write to `Gemfile.lock`.

```
There was an error while trying to write to `/srv/jekyll/Gemfile.lock`. It is
```

I don't know how this works though. The entry-point command given to the container is only meant to run after the docker has set up gems internally.

### Volume note

Note that GitHub's own starter workflow mounts **two** volumes, when only one is needed.

Here it is anyway with `_site` as a volume.

```
-v ${{ github.workspace }}:/srv/jekyll \
-v ${{ github.workspace }}/_site:/srv/jekyll/_site \
```

The second is unnecessary as it is already covered by the first as a nested directory with the identical name in and outside the container.

{% endraw %}
