recipes/ci-cd/github-actions/workflows/jekyll/jekyll-npm-gh-pages.md, before:

# Jekyll with NPM packages on GH Pages

{% raw %}

Start with a Jekyll-based project in your CI, add NPM/Yarn to it and then publish to `gh-pages` branch for serving on GH Pages.

This flow comes from DevHints [rstacruz/cheatsheet](https://github.com/rstacruz/cheatsheets) repo.

It is low-level in working with tools - it may not be efficient compared with using other actions and workflows. But, it is a complete solution, so it could be useful to learn from. The file has been split into pieces so I can focus on using any piece.

- Base setup.
    ```yaml
    name: Deploy
    on:
      push:
        branches:
          - master

    jobs:
        build:
          runs-on: ubuntu-latest

          steps:
            # ...
    ```
- Checkout step.
    ```yaml
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
        with:
          persist-credentials: false
    ```
- Steps to set up and use cache for Yarn and Bundler. These are just copied as is - see the [Cache](/recipes/ci-cd/github-actions/workflows/cache.md) section of this Cookbook for more info.
    ```yaml
    steps:
      # checkout...

      # https://github.com/actions/cache/blob/master/examples.md#node---yarn
      - name: "Cache: Get yarn cache directory path"
        id: yarn-cache-dir-path
        run: echo "::set-output name=dir::$(yarn cache dir)"

      - name: "Cache: Set up yarn cache"
        uses: actions/cache@v2
        id: yarn-cache
        with:
          path: ${{ steps.yarn-cache-dir-path.outputs.dir }}
            key: ${{ runner.os }}-yarn-${{ hashFiles('**/yarn.lock') }}
          restore-keys: ${{ runner.os }}-yarn-

      # https://github.com/actions/cache/blob/master/examples.md#ruby---bundler
      - name: "Cache: Set up bundler cache"
        uses: actions/cache@v2
        with:
          path: vendor/bundle
          key: ${{ runner.os }}-gems-${{ hashFiles('**/Gemfile.lock') }}
          restore-keys: ${{ runner.os }}-gems-
    ```
- Setup NodeJS (and Yarn) and Ruby.
    ```yaml
    steps:
      # ...

      - name: Use Node.js
        uses: actions/setup-node@v1
        with: { node-version: '12.x' }

      - name: Use Ruby
        uses: actions/setup-ruby@v1
        with: { ruby-version: '2.7.1' }
    ```
- Setup node packages and gems and do the yarn build. NPM could be used here too.
    ```yaml
    steps:
      # ...

      - name: Setup dependencies
        run: |
          yarn install --frozen-lockfile
          bundle config set path vendor/bundle
          bundle install --jobs 4 --retry 3

      - run: yarn build
    ```
- GitHub pages deploy to main site and to a mirror. This will run on the `jekyll build` command and use the NPM build output from above.
    ```yaml
    steps:
      # ...

      - name: "Deploy to gh-pages 🚀"
        uses: JamesIves/github-pages-deploy-action@releases/v3
        with:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
          BRANCH: gh-pages
          FOLDER: _site

      - name: "Deploy to mirror 🚀"
        uses: JamesIves/github-pages-deploy-action@releases/v3
        with:
          ACCESS_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN }}
          REPOSITORY_NAME: rstacruz/devhints-mirror
          BRANCH: gh-pages
          FOLDER: _site
    ```

{% endraw %}

Commit message:

refactor: Replace Setup with Set up

recipes/ci-cd/github-actions/workflows/jekyll/jekyll-npm-gh-pages.md, after:

# Jekyll with NPM packages on GH Pages

{% raw %}

Start with a Jekyll-based project in your CI, add NPM/Yarn to it and then publish to `gh-pages` branch for serving on GH Pages.

This flow comes from DevHints [rstacruz/cheatsheet](https://github.com/rstacruz/cheatsheets) repo.

It is low-level in working with tools - it may not be efficient compared with using other actions and workflows. But, it is a complete solution, so it could be useful to learn from. The file has been split into pieces so I can focus on using any piece.

- Base setup.
    ```yaml
    name: Deploy
    on:
      push:
        branches:
          - master

    jobs:
        build:
          runs-on: ubuntu-latest

          steps:
            # ...
    ```
- Checkout step.
    ```yaml
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
        with:
          persist-credentials: false
    ```
- Steps to set up and use cache for Yarn and Bundler. These are just copied as is - see the [Cache](/recipes/ci-cd/github-actions/workflows/cache.md) section of this Cookbook for more info.
    ```yaml
    steps:
      # checkout...

      # https://github.com/actions/cache/blob/master/examples.md#node---yarn
      - name: "Cache: Get yarn cache directory path"
        id: yarn-cache-dir-path
        run: echo "::set-output name=dir::$(yarn cache dir)"

      - name: "Cache: Set up yarn cache"
        uses: actions/cache@v2
        id: yarn-cache
        with:
          path: ${{ steps.yarn-cache-dir-path.outputs.dir }}
            key: ${{ runner.os }}-yarn-${{ hashFiles('**/yarn.lock') }}
          restore-keys: ${{ runner.os }}-yarn-

      # https://github.com/actions/cache/blob/master/examples.md#ruby---bundler
      - name: "Cache: Set up bundler cache"
        uses: actions/cache@v2
        with:
          path: vendor/bundle
          key: ${{ runner.os }}-gems-${{ hashFiles('**/Gemfile.lock') }}
          restore-keys: ${{ runner.os }}-gems-
    ```
- Set up NodeJS (and Yarn) and Ruby.
    ```yaml
    steps:
      # ...

      - name: Use Node.js
        uses: actions/setup-node@v1
        with: { node-version: '12.x' }

      - name: Use Ruby
        uses: actions/setup-ruby@v1
        with: { ruby-version: '2.7.1' }
    ```
- Set up node packages and gems and do the yarn build. NPM could be used here too.
    ```yaml
    steps:
      # ...

      - name: Set up dependencies
        run: |
          yarn install --frozen-lockfile
          bundle config set path vendor/bundle
          bundle install --jobs 4 --retry 3

      - run: yarn build
    ```
- GitHub pages deploy to main site and to a mirror. This will run on the `jekyll build` command and use the NPM build output from above.
    ```yaml
    steps:
      # ...

      - name: "Deploy to gh-pages 🚀"
        uses: JamesIves/github-pages-deploy-action@releases/v3
        with:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
          BRANCH: gh-pages
          FOLDER: _site

      - name: "Deploy to mirror 🚀"
        uses: JamesIves/github-pages-deploy-action@releases/v3
        with:
          ACCESS_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN }}
          REPOSITORY_NAME: rstacruz/devhints-mirror
          BRANCH: gh-pages
          FOLDER: _site
    ```

{% endraw %}
