# EditorConfig

See [editorconfig.org](https://editorconfig.org/) for syntax.

The point of the editor config file is to set one in each repo so that when you or others edit in the repo in any coding environment that supports it, you'll get the same settings. GitHub and PyCharm don't need an extension to support this but VS Code does.

## VS Code notes

Note that VS Code does let you choose the indent level and tabs/spaces handling, but this is limited as it is not by file type but for all files, whether global or across a project.

Note these are not always needed - in VS Code you can convert between tabs and spaces and change the spacing, then that will be remembered after that for that file. However, you have to repeat this for each new file. So perhaps leave default as 4 spaces at global IDE settings (to cover most of my cases) and then set spaces for certain languages. I mostly work on my projects alone, so maybe a shared global editor config is worthwhile.

TODO - Can I create one at the user level to share across all repos? Unless `root = true` is set.

If using VS Code Prettier or related extensions (such as for formatting with semicolons), be sure to set space to 2 and disable tabs in the config. These will be applied when the file is saved and unfortunately the editor config is not picked up.


## Samples

These are separate but can combined if they make sense for one project.

### Shell

```ini
[*.sh]
indent_style = space
indent_size = 2
```

### Python

```ini
[*.py]
indent_style = space
indent_size = 4
```

### JavaScript

```ini
[*.js]
indent_style = space
indent_size = 2
```

```ini
[*.{js,ts}]
indent_style = space
indent_size = 2
```

```ini
[*.{js,json}]
indent_style = space
indent_size = 2
```

### Make

```ini
[Makefile]
indent_style = tab
```

### Markdown

```ini
[*.md]
indent_style = space
indent_size = 4
```

### Generated

The VS Code EditorConfig extension can generate a file for you if you right-click on a file on a folder. It won't create one if one already exists. You could also create them them at multiple levels if you need to.

Here is output generated by the extension. Perhaps too verbose. Also I had to tweak the whitespace ones as below and VS Code does not honor those - it has its own IDE settings.

```ini
root = true

[*]
indent_style = space
indent_size = 4
charset = utf-8
trim_trailing_whitespace = true
insert_final_newline = true
```



### Demo

Provided on the EditorConfig homepage.

```ini
# EditorConfig is awesome: https://EditorConfig.org

# top-most EditorConfig file
root = true

# Unix-style newlines with a newline ending every file
[*]
end_of_line = lf
insert_final_newline = true

# Matches multiple files with brace expansion notation
# Set default charset
[*.{js,py}]
charset = utf-8

# 4 space indentation
[*.py]
indent_style = space
indent_size = 4

# Tab indentation (no size specified)
[Makefile]
indent_style = tab

# Indentation override for all JS under lib directory
[lib/**.js]
indent_style = space
indent_size = 2

# Matches the exact files either package.json or .travis.yml
[{package.json,.travis.yml}]
indent_style = space
indent_size = 2
```
