recipes/shell/ssh/github-ssh-access.md, before:

---
description: How to setup your machine and GitHub profile to allow access by SSH
---
# GitHub SSH access

How to setup SSH on your machine from scratch and configure SSH access on your GitHub account


## Why

If you setup GitHub SSH access, then you can clone, push or pull using an SSH repo URL. Note the URL does not start with `https`, unlike the usual **HTTP(* accesd method, which is less secure.

e.g.

```sh
$ git clone git@github.com:MichaelCurrin/code-cookbook.git
```

This avoids having to enter your **password** each time your push, or if you pull a private repo. And this is especially useful if **2FA** is setup.

You can also use the SSH URL for any **public** repos by other people if you want to clone them (you won't be able to push unless you are a collaborator though).


## Generate keys

Follow the [install](install.md) guide to install SSH with APT.

Follow the [keys](keys.md) guide to generate a pair of SSH keys.


## View keys

View your _public_ key - the one with `.pub` extension. Copy it as you'll need to paste it in the next section.

```sh
$ view ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
```


## Add key to GitHub

1. Login to GitHub account.
1. Go to the SSH keys page
    - [github.com/settings/keys](https://github.com/settings/keys)
    - Or
        1. Settings.
        1. SSH and GPG keys.
1. Create new SSH key.
1. Give it title description of your username and host. e.g. `Michael Dell (Linux Lite)`. This can be renamed.
1. Paste the public key copied from the previous section.


Based on [source](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/adding-a-new-ssh-key-to-your-github-account).

Commit message:

refactor: Replace setup with set up

recipes/shell/ssh/github-ssh-access.md, after:

---
description: How to set up your machine and GitHub profile to allow access by SSH
---
# GitHub SSH access

How to set up SSH on your machine from scratch and configure SSH access on your GitHub account


## Why

If you set up GitHub SSH access, then you can clone, push or pull using an SSH repo URL. Note the URL does not start with `https`, unlike the usual **HTTP(* accesd method, which is less secure.

e.g.

```sh
$ git clone git@github.com:MichaelCurrin/code-cookbook.git
```

This avoids having to enter your **password** each time your push, or if you pull a private repo. And this is especially useful if **2FA** is setup.

You can also use the SSH URL for any **public** repos by other people if you want to clone them (you won't be able to push unless you are a collaborator though).


## Generate keys

Follow the [install](install.md) guide to install SSH with APT.

Follow the [keys](keys.md) guide to generate a pair of SSH keys.


## View keys

View your _public_ key - the one with `.pub` extension. Copy it as you'll need to paste it in the next section.

```sh
$ view ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
```


## Add key to GitHub

1. Login to GitHub account.
1. Go to the SSH keys page
    - [github.com/settings/keys](https://github.com/settings/keys)
    - Or
        1. Settings.
        1. SSH and GPG keys.
1. Create new SSH key.
1. Give it title description of your username and host. e.g. `Michael Dell (Linux Lite)`. This can be renamed.
1. Paste the public key copied from the previous section.


Based on [source](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/adding-a-new-ssh-key-to-your-github-account).
